V2.0.0 alpha.7 (#35)
substrate-developer-hub/tutorials: tuts/build-a-dapp/v2.0.0-alpha.7/front-end.md

---
slug: front-end
lang: en
title: Building a Custom Front End
---

> If you have made it this far, that means you _should_ have a brand new blockchain with custom

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have made it this far, it means you _should_ have a brand new blockchain with custom
```

functionality up and running.

> We will give you a custom react component that you can add to your `substrate-front-end-template`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Int his tutorial we will build a custom react component that you can add to your `substrate-front-end-template`
```

meant for interacting with your node.

## Explore the Front End Template

To start the front-end template, navigate to its directory and run:

```bash
yarn start
```

A new tab should open in your web browser and you'll see the following interface.

![Front End Template](../assets/front-end-template.png)

> You'll see a list of pre-funded accounts, and you can make token transfers between those accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll see a list of pre-funded accounts and you can make token transfers between those accounts.
```

![Balance Transfer](../assets/front-end-template-balance-transfer.png)

## Add Your Custom React Component

In the `substrate-front-end-template` project, edit the `TemplateModule.js` file in the `/src/`
folder:

```
substrate-front-end-template
|
+-- src
|   |
|   +-- index.js
|   |
|   +-- App.js
|   |
|   +-- TemplateModule.js  <-- Edit this file
|   |
|   +-- ...
+-- ...
```

> Delete the contents of that file, and instead use the following component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace the contents of that file with the following:
```

import React, { useState, useEffect } from 'react';
import { Form, Input, Grid, Message } from 'semantic-ui-react';
// Pre-built Substrate front-end utilities for connecting to a node
// and making a transaction.
import { useSubstrate } from './substrate-lib';
import { TxButton } from './substrate-lib/components';
// Polkadot-JS utilities for hashing data.
import { blake2AsHex } from '@polkadot/util-crypto';

// Our main Proof Of Existence Component which is exported.
export default function ProofOfExistence (props) {
  // Establish an API to talk to our Substrate node.
  const { api } = useSubstrate();
  // Get the 'selected user' from the `AccountSelector` component.
  const { accountPair } = props;
  // React hooks for all the state variables we track.
  // Learn more at: https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html
  const [status, setStatus] = useState('');
  const [digest, setDigest] = useState('');
  const [owner, setOwner] = useState('');
  const [block, setBlock] = useState(0);

  // Our `FileReader()` which is accessible from our functions below.
  let fileReader;

  // Takes our file, and creates a digest using the Blake2 256 hash function.
  const bufferToDigest = () => {

>     // Turns the file content to a hexadecimal representation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Convert the file content to a hexadecimal representation.
```

  const handleFileChosen = (file) => {
    fileReader = new FileReader();
    fileReader.onloadend = bufferToDigest;
    fileReader.readAsArrayBuffer(file);
  };

  // React hook to update the 'Owner' and 'Block Number' information for a file.
  useEffect(() => {
    let unsubscribe;

    // Polkadot-JS API query to the `proofs` storage item in our pallet.
    // This is a subscription, so it will always get the latest value,
    // even if it changes.
    api.query.templateModule
      .proofs(digest, (result) => {
        // Our storage item returns a tuple, which is represented as an array.
        setOwner(result[0].toString());
        setBlock(result[1].toNumber());
      })
      .then((unsub) => {
        unsubscribe = unsub;
      });

    return () => unsubscribe && unsubscribe();
    // This tells the React hook to update whenever the file digest changes
    // (when a new file is chosen), or when the storage subscription says the
    // value of the storage item has updated.
  }, [digest, api.query.templateModule]);

  // We can say a file digest is claimed if the stored block number is not 0.
  function isClaimed () {
    return block !== 0;
  }

>   // The actual UI elements which are returned from our component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // The actual UI elements returned from our component.
```

            type='TRANSACTION'
            attrs={{ params: [digest], tx: api.tx.templateModule.revokeClaim }}
            disabled={!isClaimed() || owner !== accountPair.address}
          />
        </Form.Field>
        {/* Status message about the transaction. */}
        <div style={{ overflowWrap: 'break-word' }}>{status}</div>
      </Form>
    </Grid.Column>
  );
}
```

We won't walk you step by step through the creation of this component, but do look over the code
comments to learn what each part is doing.

## Submit a Proof

Your front end template should reload when you save your changes, and you'll notice our new
component. Now we're ready to try out our new dApp. Select any file on your computer, and you will
see that you can create a claim with its file digest:

![Proof Of Existence Component](../assets/poe-component.png)

If you press "Create Claim", a transaction will be dispatched to your custom Proof of Existence
pallet, where this digest and the selected user account will be stored on chain.

![Claimed File](../assets/poe-claimed.png)

If all went well, you should see a new `ClaimCreated` event appear in the Events component. The

> front-end automatically recognizes that your file is now claimed, and even gives you the option to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
front-end automatically recognizes that your file is now claimed, and gives you the option to
```

```js
// React and Semantic UI elements.
import React, { useState, useEffect } from 'react';
import { Form, Input, Grid, Message } from 'semantic-ui-react';
// Pre-built Substrate front-end utilities for connecting to a node
// and making a transaction.
import { useSubstrate } from './substrate-lib';
import { TxButton } from './substrate-lib/components';
// Polkadot-JS utilities for hashing data.
import { blake2AsHex } from '@polkadot/util-crypto';

// Our main Proof Of Existence Component which is exported.

> export default function ProofOfExistence (props) {

Reviewer 2: Is this space intentional? Is it one of our linting rules? Look funky to my eyes.

Author: Yes, I changed the format of this JS so that the linter in the front-end template wouldn't complain about it.
